1. Model diagnostic. How was it done?

Normality and homogeneity of variance was checked twice. 
(btw: it is not clear why you have check normality in each group separately).

In both situations tests show problems. 
You should select few genes that violate assumptions most and then see diagnostic plots for these genes.
Right now we only know that on the level 0.01 tests finds that assumptions are not met. 
But we do not know how serious is the problem with assumptions.


2. List of genes. Is it included? Is it narrowed to some 'reasonable' number of genes?

The line that lists gene names is commented, so the list is not included but I guess it can be easily added. This is why I give 50% of points.

Names of genes are not enough. To understand how these genes differ among groups you should plot boxplots or other ‘effect-plots’


3. Is there a structure in the report? Are there conclusions?

Small changes will greatly improve the structure.
Like: 
- add table of contents
- start with short overview what are the 'final results' (abstract)
- I read the 'Conclusions' part few times but still I cannot find what is the most important conclusion.
Is it that the 242 genes are 'the' significant genes. 
Is there any reason to choose threshold 0.4?

4. How many approaches have been tried out?

First was just to calculate anova and use p-values.
Second was to use normalized critical range and number of groups. 
But there are no justifications why these measures should be used or any justifications why to use these cutoffs.

Also we do not know what types of cancers are different (in terms of selected 434 genes).
You may consider boxplots to present some example genes that differ between cancers
or statistics like, these 10 genes recognize cancer BRCA from all others



Others

Cutoffs, like 0.01 (for p-value), should be parameterized. 
Now, to change the cutoff I need to change it in 5 different places. 
It's better to have it as a one parameter/variable on the beginning of script (like alpha=0.01).

You are doing something like:
for (j in 1:length(levels(CancerType))){
  zmienna[j]<-tapply(x, CancerType, shapiro.test)[[j]]$p.value
}
But then for each j you are testing normality for all groups. 
It would be enough test it only for group j (should be 12 times faster).



Points
1/3 + 1.5/3 + 2/3 + 2.5/3 + 3 = 10



