1. Model diagnostic. How was it done?

I guess that in the first iteration most genes do not pass diagnostic thus you have tried the ‘hack’ with sampling 50 cases from each group.
But in the report I do not see any statistics: how many genes pass the diagnostic and how many do not.

The idea to present boxplots and diagnostic for a single gene is actually a very good idea. 
Actually you can select more than one gene (i.e. 30 genes) and present diagnostic for all of them.
But then 30 genes x 6 plots is not best idea so instead of all 6 plots you should present one or two most important ones.


2. List of genes. Is it included? Is it narrowed to some 'reasonable' number of genes?

There is only information which gene is the most changed one. 
Instead of head(anova.kruskal, 10) you may consider presentation top 10/30 genes with smallest p-values.


3. Is there a structure in the report? Are there conclusions?

Few small changes would improve the structure a lot:
- add table of contents
- I do not see any conclusions
- short overview on the beginning would help to understand what you have accomplished (abstract)


4. How many approaches have been tried out?

Kurskal / anova / box-cox. Not bad.
Bit actually I would like to see if results for kruskal are different than results for ANOVA. If not, what is the point with choosing a method?

Kruskal test is based on ranks. So the boxcox transformation should not affect it (kruskal on original data will be equal to test after transformation).


Others

Removing 'outliers' without any visual examination is very risky.
In this particular case it is not a good approach and it may led to deletion of the whole class (if one class would be different than 11 other classes)

You should avoid constant like '16116' / '0.01'
either derive them from data (ncol() instead of 16116) or set as parameters on the beginning of the script (alpha=0.01)

Instead of tricks like 'assign(paste0("model",k), model)' you may store results in lists, like models[[k]] = model

I have no idea why you are using median of p-values. 

Presented boxplots do not look good. Labels are cut and in most cases I can read only 'Cancer'


Points
1.5/3 + 1.5/3 + 2/3 + 3/3 + 3 = 11





